### StackPatch - Hot Patching Framework for Embedded Systems

### Description 
## The structure of the artifact is as follows:

```
-------------\
| - Evaluation: The evluation of StackPatch was conducted using STM32F401RE (Coetex-M4), GD32VF103 (RSIC-V32), and ESP32S3 (Xtensa-LX7) development boards.
└─── Compare: The comparison with other hot patching approaches for embedded systems.
└─── DispatchDelayBinarySearch: Added performance evaluation of the patch dispatcher for binary Search.
└─── HeartRateSensor: StackPatch fixes a vulnerability in the heart rate sensor.
└─── NetworkServiceLatency: StackPatch fixes the vulnerabilities Network Services.

| - VulDevice: This folder contains the implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE (Coetex-M4), GD32VF103 (RSIC-V32), and ESP32S3 (Xtensa-LX7) development boards. 
└─── ESP32S3: Implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE board.
└─── GD32VF103: Implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE board.
└─── STM32F401RE: Implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE board.
```

## This repository contains 11 demo projects, and you can use them to facilitate patch development:
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\ESP32S3 : Implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE board.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\GD32VF103 : Implementation of StackPatch on the STM32F401RE board.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\STM32F401RE\flashpatch\dwtflashpatch : Implementation of stackpatch hardware breakpoint mode (DWT) on stm32f401re board.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\STM32F401RE\flashpatch\fpbflashpatch : Implementation of stackpatch hardware breakpoint mode (FPB) on stm32f401re board.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\STM32F401RE\srampatch\bootloader : Bootloader for executing programs in SRAM.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\STM32F401RE\srampatch\freertos_cve_test : Using software breakpoints to fix vulnerabilities in FreeRTOS.
 - StackPatch\VulDevice\STM32F401RE\srampatch\sram_cve : Using software breakpoints to fix vulnerabilities in other RTOSes.
 - StackPatch\Evaluation\Compare : Performance comparison between stackpatch and other work.
 - StackPatch\Evaluation\dispatchdelayBinarySearch : Add the binary search function of stackpatch scheduling patch.
 - StackPatch\Evaluation\HeartTateSensor\fpbflashpatch: Experiment of stackpatch in repairing vulnerabilities in heart rate sensor.
 - StackPatch\Evaluation\NetworkSreverLatency : Experiment of repairing web server with stackpatch.

A demo folder introduction example : 
└─── Drivers: Drive configuration file (including the Hal Library).
└─── Middlewares: Including RTOS kernel source code.
└─── Output: By compiling the demo, the output file.
└─── Projects: Keil project of the demo.
└─── User: User's program.
We modify two exception handlers, DebugMon_Handler and HardFault_Handler, in the startup_stm32f401xe.s file. 
The cve.c file is a vulnerability function in our paper. 
The patch.c file is a hot patch for C programs generated by StackPatch. 

### Requirements 
To evaluate *StackPatch* and obtain results similar to those presented in the paper, access to one of the following **four** boards is required: 
**nRF52840, STM32-F401RE, GD32VF103 or ESP32S3**
We recommend using the STM32F401RE board to compile the StackPatch runtime with keil IDE. 


# STM32-F401RE (recommend) or nRF52840   
Required:
 - Windows 10.
 - Keil uVision5 IDE.
 - Serial port tool (such as pyserial).
 - a debugger (J-LINK or ST-LINK).


Usage:
   1. Use a debugger (such as ST-LINK) to connect the PC to the development board.
   2. Open the KEIL project in the VulDevice/STM32F401RE/ folder (such as VulDevice\STM32F401RE\flashpatch\fpbflashpatch\Projects\MDK-ARM\f401re.uvprojx)
   3. Compiler and download the firmware to the board. 
   4. Using the serial port tool to communicate with the board, you can see the repair log of StackPatch.


# GD32VF103  
Required:
 - Windows 10.
 - eclipse IDE.
 - Serial port tool (such as pyserial).
 - a debugger (GD-LINK).

Usage: 
 - entry.S: We have modified the entry.S in the component, specifically the trap_entry exception handling function. You can use it to replace the corresponding file.


# ESP32S3
Required:
 - Windows 10.
 - ESP-IDF (including Python, Git, cross-compilers, CMake, Ninja compilation tools, etc.).
 - Serial port tool (such as pyserial).
 - a debugger (J-LINK).

Usage:
 - panic_handler_asm.S: We have modified the panic_handler_asm.S in the ESP-IDF component (which integrates FreeRTOS), specifically the xt_panic exception handling function. You can use it to replace the corresponding file in ESP-IDF.
 - instrument.py: You can use it to perform instrumentation for functions in ESP-IDF.